# maugm.github.io

The World Wide Web is one of the most recent, and greatest, inventions of all time. However, we cannot confuse the Internet and the Web, the internet being a network/signal, linked by telephone lines worldwide, allowing different applications to be used as communication, yet the internet is what allows these applications to successfully run. The Web, is just one of many applications that goes hand-in-hand with the Internet. It is a collection or database of formats and files (videos, images, music, etc.) which can be accessed using the internet.

Thanks to coding language ASCII which runs on two rules, Berners-Lee realized all computers could exchange information easily, when the language is used. The first rule being HTTP, HyperText Transfer Protocol, so that two computers can exchange information through a simple conversion, not depending on distance. The client, runs the web browser, asks the server for the information needed through series of simple messages. HTML, HyperText Markup Language, based on ASCII, so that any computer can understand it. When browsers (an application with graphic user interface in order to display HTML files, in order to navigate the WWW) and their server communicate, it is through HTTP. The browser asks for a specific amount of things (Host, User-agent, Accept, accept-language, accept-encoding, accept-charset, keep-alive, connection), followed by what we as humans would read as gibberish. Yet, the server replies with what the browser needs in order for the webpage to be displayed onto the browser’s screen. The browser tells the server what software is running it, what it’s operating system is, what forms of compression it knows how to read, and what file it wants. Then the server sends the wanted compressed file, along with data regarding the file (what format it is in, how long it is). For any computer to locate specific information stored on any computer (or the web), Berners-Lee suggested to create a zip-code-like-like idea, the URL: Universal/Uniform Resource Locator. 
